# Getting Started 
Please check the official laravel installation guide for server requirements before you start. 
[Link Text](https://laravel.com/docs/5.4/installation#installation)


Clone the repository
`https://github.com/Baniyabinod/UiT-history-project-backend`

Switch to the repo folder
`cd UiT-history-project-backend`

Install all the dependencies using the composer
`composer install`

Copy the example env file and make the required configuration changes in the .env file
Note that since we copied the entire project it will have the .env file created by me, you are not supposed to used it but you can copy it somewhere for the reference.

Make the copy of your own .env file  as shown below because you will need to generate the application key after this and it will be saved in the .env file. Right now, the .env file contains the key generated by me. 

`cp .env.example .env`


Generate the new application key.
`php artisan key:generate`

Run the database migrations (Set the database connection in .env before migrating). In our case, we need to keep the database file inside the database directory on the same level in the directory as migration, seeds and others. If you look into my .env file I was putting the data named `histlab_copy_new.db` inside the database folder and used it from there.

`php artisan migrate`


Start the local development server

`php artisan serve`

You can now access the server at http://localhost:8000


# Testing API



The api can now be accessed at , for example:


`http://localhost:8000//population-by-gender-group-municipality/1910/1902`

We can find the other apis here where all the apis used are defined.

`/routes/web.php`